# Reflection of the article ' [The Case Against Grades](https://www.alfiekohn.org/article/case-grades/)' by Alfie Kohn

The article by Alfie Kohn is about the grading system in education. Overall, the article has strongly opposed the grading system in education. It has also included the experience of some of the school teachers about the impact of the grades to students. In my view, the grading system hampers human ability therefore, I am against the grading system as well.

School should be the right path to the journey for acquiring knowledge. However, the grade is resembling the school's as a center for testing students. School should help in developing personal skills, creativity, and learning new things. It should not be the place to compare one with another rather the center of sharpening oneself. However, grading has hindered the adventure of gaining knowledge and ideas. instead of strengthening the capacity of students as much as it can do without grading. It badly affects problem-solving skills. Students, who are also the future of the whole world, should focus on creating new ideas. However, students can not think properly due to the fierce of grades so the creativity of one is greatly affected.

Students prefer easier assignments to achieve a better grade rather than focusing on learning new things. Therefore, students may not bear the stress in real-world problems. They may get frightened and hopeless soon. Even I am personally affected by this. I still get nervous when there is something new to me as I have focused myself till now on memorizing things for my grades. It has hampered me a lot. It is difficult for me to cope up with a new environment. I still feel awkward when meeting new people. Therefore, it has adversely affected my social profile as well as in innovation.


In my opinion, grades create jealousy among students. Although students should be focused on learning new things, they are in thirst for grades as we all want to be better than others. It causes unhealthy relationships among people which causes negativity in society. We, humans, are social animals. We should live in a society with social harmony and co-operation but grading divides the people. Education should teach us about team building and its strength but it opposes teamwork. For instance, there were two friends of mine at school. They used to be together all the time and had good relations. One was the topper and another one was average in the class. However, the average one got a good grade in grade 9. Eventually, it ended up their relationship, and are contactless to each other now.


I think we should focus on providing feedback to the students rather than grades. Feedback helps people to choose the right way and improve themselves from the past. It sharpens skills and critical thinking. In contrast, I believe grades make people a machine, who neither think critically nor have their creativity. It also diverts people away from social harmony, cooperation, and teamwork. Therefore, we should emphasize the quality of education and help students in their development rather than the number of grades.
